## 13. Journey by Road

- (i) The Governments assistance towards the cost of journeys between places not connected by rail will be admissible to the Government servant as entitled on permanent duty moves as given in Rule 61
- NOTE 1:Leave Travel Concession shall not be admissible for journey by a private car (owned, borrowed or hired) or chartered bus, van or other vehicle owned, operated by private operators. However, LTC is admissible for journeys conducted by Tourism Development Corporation in the Public Sector; State Transport Corporations and Transport services run by central or other Government or local bodies. In such cases , the Government servant will be entitled to reimbursement of:

- (a) The actual hire charges on the chartered vehicle; or
- (b) The amount reimbursable had the journey to the declared place of visit been performed by the entitled class by rail by the shortest direct route; whichever is less.
- NOTE 2: Disabled Government servant or disabled dependent family member can perform journey by own car or hired private taxi. The claim will be restricted to actual expenses limited to journey performed by the entitled class.
- (ii) For the portion of the journey which is not connected by a recognised public transport system, Government assistance should be the road mileage at the rate prescribed in Rule 61.
- In either case, the amount of Government assistance should be calculated on the basis of actual fares of road mileage as above; as the case may be at single rate for the Government servant himself and each entitled members of his family for whom full fares are payable and at their half rates for children between the ages of 3 and 12 years for whom half rates are payable.
- (iii) In respect of places which are not connected by rail, the Government servant may travel by steamerlair where an alternative means of travel is eitherl not available or is more expensive. In such cases Government bears the same portion of cost as in the case of rail journeys.
- (iv) Where a Government servant performs the journeys between places not connected by rail or by air, the actual fare spent on recognized public transport system or the road mileage indicated at (iii) above, whichever is more, reimbursed to the Government servant. This decision does not; however; apply to cases in which journeys of the type between Pathankot and Srinagar are involved, and similar other places where rail cum-road services exist and the public transport is recognised by railway: The journey is such cases are treated
- as if made by rail but reimbursement is restricted to the bus fare payable to the transport system.
- v)  Notwithstanding anything contained in &amp; (ii) above where a Government servant travelling by road takes a seat in a bus, van or other vehicle operated by Tourism Development Corporations in the Public Sector. State Transport Corporations and Transport services run by other Government or local bodies to visit any place in India, the reimbursement shall be either the actual hire charges or the amount reimbursable on the journey to the declared place of visit had the journey been undertaken by entitled class by rail by the shortest direct route; whichever is less.
- 14 . Journey by Air: Class of accommodation for journey by air will be as per Rule 62.
- NOTE 1: Non entitled Government servant may travel by air between places not connected by rail where an alternative means of travel is either not available or is more expensive.
- NOTE 2: Non-entitled Government servant serving in Ladakh Region will be entitled to LTC facility by air during winter season with the following conditions:
- (i) The facility of air travel will be admissible only for the period from 15th November to 15th March.
- (ii) The facility of air travel will be limited to travel between Leh and Sri Nagarl JammulChandigarh both for the onward and return journey.  This facility would, however be admissible between Leh and one of these three places. The journeys between Sri NagarlJammulChandigarh and the home town or any other place of visit will be regulated by the normal entitlement of Government servant concerned.
15. Journey by Sea: Class of accommodation for journey by air will be as per Rule 58.
- 16 . Travel between places not connected by any means of transport: For travel between places not connected by any other means of transport; a Government servant can avail of animal transport like pony

- elephant, camel etc. In such cases , allowance will be admissible at the same rate for journeys on transfer.
- 17 . No incidentals admissible: Incidental expenses. Expenditure on local journey and Daily Allowance will not be admissible for journeys performed under LTC.
18. Concession based on shortest route: Government's liability for the cost of railway fare will be limited to the share of the fare by the shortest route calculated on a 'through" ticket basis. The Government servant or his family members may travel by any route or halt anywhere on the way to or from home townl to place of visit, the Government assistance is limited to their share of the fare as above The term shortest route carries the same interpretation as recognised for travel on duty.
19. Journeys of Weighted Mileage: If for the entire leave travel journey or a part thereof; a Government servant to pay railway fare on the basis of an assumed or weighted mileage (as for example; on the Kalka-Shimla Section ) or at inflated rates (as for example on the Siliguri-Darjeeling Section) . The Government servant concerned is entitled to the travel concession irrespective of the actual distance between his HQ and his home town. In such a case, the amount reimbursable in respect of each journey whichever is the difference between: has
- (i) The cost of actual railway fare (inclusive of the passenger tax) from the railway station nearest to his HQ to his home town and
- (ii) The cost of railway fare (inclusive of passenger tax) at ordinary rates from the railway station nearest to his Headquarters for both the outward and return journey.
- (iii)   Weighted mileage (e.g. of 287 Kms for Kalka-Shimla) is adopted for the purpose of eligibility of LTC whether the journey is performed by rail or by road.
20. Leave Travel Concession in combination with transferltemporary duty
- Where an officer going to home town on leave proceeds there from on transfer to the new HQ, he may be allowed minimum entitlement Transfer Travelling Allowance under TR 87. He may be allowed, in addition; LTC under the rules to the extent to the distance from old HQ to home town and from home town to the new HQ. For example if 'A' is the old HQ, B home town and C the new headquarters, the entitlement of the Government servant on account of LTC will be (distance AB plus distance BC)(distance for which transfer travelling allowance is admissible) . In case where the distance for which LTC admissible as above, is negligible it will be open to the Government servant not to avail of it at all, he being permitted to avail of it on some other occasion within the block period subject to the other conditions being fulfilled. The option has to be exercised in respect of and members of the family at the time of preferring claim for transfer travelling allowance. When LTC is not availed of the LTC advance if any; taken by the Government servant should be adjusted against his Transfer Travelling Allowance entitlement. self
- ii) Where an officer proceeds with permission to home town on regular leave from a temporary duty station and return to headquarters direct from home town, travelling allowance as on temporary duty may be allowed to him for the journey from the headquarters to the tour station from which the Government servant proceeds to home town and LTC for the journey from tour station to home town and back to headquarters deeming the tour station as the starting point for the onward journey. prior
- (iii) In case an officer proceeds to a tour station from home town with  prior permission and return to headquarters from there; he may be allowed LTC as admissible under the rules from headquarters to home town and travelling allowance as on temporary duty for the journey from home town to tour station and back to headquarters.
