## 276. Children Holiday Passage

- (a) "Children Holiday Passage"(CHP) will be admissible to enable children of service personnel and India based civilians paid from Defence Services Estimates serving in Indian Diplomatic Mission abroad (Embassies and High Commissions) who are left behind in India for educational purposes and are receiving education in recognised educational institutions in India to visit their parents once a year during any vacation. The concession can however, also be availed of in respect of one child receiving his education abroad in a country other than the country of the individual's posting in which case it can be availed of only in respect of one more child studying in India.

NOTE 1: The interval between the completion of a course (or year) of study in one educational institution and the commencement if a fresh course (or year) of study in another educational institutional shall also constitute a vacation for the purpose of these rules.

- NOTE 2: National Defence Academy and other Defence Academies will not be considered as recognised educational institutions for the purpose and the children of officers studying there will not be entitled to visit their parents under this scheme.

- NOTE 3: The Children's Holiday Passages are intended for children who are left behind for educational purposes and are receiving education in recognised educational institutions. Since it is not necessary for a child receiving education through correspondence course to be left behind in India; such a child will not be eligible for passages under the Children's Holiday Passages scheme.
- (b) (i) This concession will be limited to the payment of the cost of return air passage by the cheapest class available from the airport nearest to the place study of the child in India to the post abroad. In respect of child studying abroad, the return air fare will be from the place of his study to the officer's station of posting limited to return air fare of the cheapest class from the airport nearest to the officer's station of last posting in India to post abroad.
- NOTE: The term "Cheapest Class" used above does not mean "economy class' rather; to excursion fares, tickets, issued by Air India travellers,
- it refers or concessional air to student whichever is available for a particular stationlsector.
- (ii) It may be availed of once in a period of twelve months for a maximum of two children between the ages of six and twenty two years. Provided that on the recommendation of the HOM the concession of a particular twelve month period may be availed of upto one month after the expiry of that period. The period of twelve months shall be counted from the date of his arrival at his post aboard.
- (iii) The concession will cease to be admissible to the child studying abroad in the event of the individual's transfer or posting in India.
- (iv) If the station of posting abroad is not directly linked by air with India or with the child's place of education abroad, the cost of his return passages by air (cheapest class) by sea (lowest class) and by land (appropriate class) will be admissible.
- (v) No other incidental charges will be admissible.
- NOTE 1: The child must have completed six years but not completed twenty two years of age

on the date of commencement of the outward journey.

NOTE 2: Foreign Travel Tax would be reimbursable on Children's Holiday Packages.

- (vi) In case of couple officers, whether posted to the same station or different stations, children studying in India would be entitled to only one set of CHP in each block year. However, in cases where officers are posted in different stations the decision regarding the place to which CHP has to Mission granting the CHP for any particular block year would inform the Mission where the other parent is posted. However; if one parent is posted in India; CHP benefits will not be admissible.
- (c) The grant of the above concession will be further subject to the following terms and conditions:
- (i) where an individual has completed one or more twelve month periods as defined in clause (b) (ii) above and is under orders of transfer to another posts abroad he can avail himself of the concession as usual and the twelve month period will continue to be reckoned as before and not from the date of his joining the new post on direct transfer or leave-cum-transfer from his post abroad.
- (ii)   Where an individual has completed one or more twelve month periods as defined in clause (b)(ii)above and is either under orders of transfer to a post in India or his next move has not yet been decided, he may avail himself of the concession without any condition as to the completion of the current twelve month period provided it is certified by the competent   authority that he is likely to be at the stations abroad for at least nine months after the completion of last block of the twelve month period.
- (iii) If a child accompanies the individual on posting or transfer from one post abroad to another post abroad or follows him within the permissible period in terms of the rules governing grant of TA on transfer and later returns to India or is sent to another country; for education

purposes; the cost of the child's passage from the station of the individual's posting to India or to another country; as the case may be shall not be admissible under the scheme of CHP nor shall the child be entitled to avail of holiday passage in the twelve month periods as defined in clause (b) (ii) above; in which he returns to India or is sent to another country. He shall, however; be entitled to avail of the holiday passages in subsequent twelve month periods.

- (iv) If the cost of return passage of child to India or to another country is met by the Government in terms of the rules governing TAon transfer or in relaxation thereof, the child thereafter shall not be entitled to a Holiday Passage except when the period of assignment of an individual at the station from which the child returns to India or is sent to another country is extended by the government for a further   period of not less than one year or he is transferred to another post abroad. In the latter event the holiday passage shall not be admissible for twelve month period, as defined in clause (b) (ii)above during which the child returns to India at Government cost.
- NOTE: Provided that CHP is admissible from the subsequent block year from the year the child returns to India at Government cost on transfer TAor one way Home Leave Fare; subject to the following conditions
- (a) It should be certified by the Mission that the child cannot study further for genuine reasons (to be specified) in the country of posting;
- (b) The child should not be entitled to CHP in the first block year concerned, i.e. if an officer joins a Mission on 1.7.2011 and sends back his chid soon thereafter; the child's CHP for the block year from 1.7.2011 to 30.6.2012 will be forfeited.
- (c) The child should be allowed to avail of subsequent CHP fares at Government cost for the subsequent block years subject to the existing rules; and
- (d) The child's entitlement to Home Leave Passage will stand forfeited.
- (v) (a) These passages will not be admissible if one parent is resident in India.
- (b) A parent shall not be deemed to be a resident in India if helshe stays with the officer continuously for a period of at least six months at the station of posting in each block year during which CHP is claimed.

NOTE: Ifa Government servant is legally separated or divorced from hislher wifel husband hel she will be governed by special orders of the Government:

- (vi) Where the individual claims or proposes to claim the Transfer TA for the child within a year of his transfer at his post abroad in terms of Rule 253 or in relaxation thereof the child will not be entitled to avail of a holiday passage during that year:
- (d) (i) Where the individual serving in a Missionl Post abroad has more than two children between the ages of six and twenty two receiving education in recognised educational institutions in India, he will have the option to send his wife to India to be with the children during the vacation in lieu of two of the children visiting their parents abroad provided the individual concerned is entitled to avail of the CHP in respect of two of his children at that time in terms of these orders. years
- (ii) In case where this option is exercised, the wife of the individual will be entitled to payment of the cost of return air passage by the cheapest class available from the post abroad to the first of landing in India to be availed of provided she arrives in India not more than 3 weeks before the commencement of vacation and leaves India not more than three weeks after the end of the vacation: Where, however; the place of posting abroad may not be linked by air with India and the journey or a part there of has to be performed by rail or sea; she will be entitled to TA by the appropriate class for the land journey and in the case of sea travel passage by the appropriate class on the last connecting boat reaching India before the commencement of the vacation of the children and, on return journey; on the first available boat sailing from India after termination of the vacation: Where sea travel is involved, port prior

permission of Government will be obtained giving particulars of the timing of the connecting boats.

- (iii) This concession will not be admissible to other relatives except wife of the individual. It will also not be admissible unless the number of children of the permissible age group left in India for education in recognised educational institutions is at least three.
- (e) Within the scope of this rule, Heads of MissionslPosts may arrange passage of the childlchildren or wife, as the case may be, in respect of journeys starting from outside India. Passages for journeys starting from India shall be arranged by Service HQ and the payment of these will be made in India. In respect of passages arranged by Heads of MissionslPosts abroad whenever the payment of the fare be made in India; the amount in question; will be transferred to India through a Reserve Bank of India draft. For passages availed of under the rule, a journey completion certificate as per annexure 'B 'to this rule will be submitted by the individual concerned supported by a certificate from the HOMIPost that all requirements and conditions prescribed have been fulfilled.
- f) The following procedure will be adopted with a view to maintaining a proper record of 'Holiday Passages' availed of by the childrenlwives of Individuals posted abroad:
- (i) As and when an individual submits an application for passages for children wife under these instructions he will be required to submit necessary particulars

in sextuplicate as in the form shown in annexure 'A'. The Controlling Officer after recording the necessary certificate in the form will forward three copies to the Controller of Defence Accounts concerned auditing the pay accounts and one copy to Service HQ. The Controller of Defence Accounts will retain one copy and send one to Service HQIthe HOM concerned confirming entitlement to passages on receipt of which only passages will be arranged. The third copy will be endorsed to the controller paying the shipping lair bills who should look for the same before Service HQ will, in respect of passages arranged by them; also inform the respective Controlling Officer accordingly who would, in turn inform the individual concerned.

- (ii) The remaining two copies of the form will be disposed of as follows:

The original form will be retained in the Mission concerned and attached with the adjustment journey completion certificate for the purposes of audit scrutiny:  Sixth copy will be retained in the Mission to be forwarded to the next station of posting of the individual concerned if and when he is transferred.

NOTE: It is the responsibility of the individual concerned to intimate the date on which the children's holiday passages are required well in advance to the Service HQ etc and forward passports to them for obtaining Visas thereon. Aconfirmation that the International Health Certificates are complete in all respect will also be communicated to them.
