## 129.  Travelling Allowance to an individual deputed for training at Centresllnstitutions at his HQ station

Theadmissibility of TADAto the individual deputed for in connection with training courses of instructions at HQs station will be regulated as under:

1. (a) No DAor Road Mileage Allowance would be admissible to individual attending training at Centresllnstitution located at the individual HQs station, as such institutionslcentres shall be deemed to be his Temporary HQ during the period of his training: Travelling Allowance shall also not be admissible to a Government servant on a when he is detailed for studyltraining etc. by the Training Institution at another place at the same station and he visits that place at the same station and he visits that place directly from his residence. day

- (b) Road Mileage Allowance at the appropriate rate plus 50% DA for period of absence from HQs would be admissible to the individual for training at Centres located in areas contiguous to HQs station and where the individual performs journey beyond 8 Km.
- (c) Road Mileage Allowance for onward and return journey once only plus normal DA for the period of entire absence from HQ would be admissible to the individual for training at place located outside the HQ station or contiguous areas.
- NOTE For the purpose of TDICourse of Instructions the area covered under the Municipal limits of the town or city; in which the normal duty point of the Government servant is located is to be treated as the HQ station of the individual. A journey performed beyond the HQ station' be within the limit of urban agglomeration in which a Government servants HQ is located is to be treated as 'area contiguous to HQ station' .
- 2 When however, on any the Government servants under training; are required; under proper orders; to attend two or more place at the HQ station in connection with their training the actual conveyance expenses by the public conveyance between one local place of training and the other such place(s) may be reimbursed to them. will be entitled to conveyance expenses by Rickshawl or other cheapest mode of conveyance at the rate fixed by the local authorities at that place where public conveyance like Bus/TramITrain are not in operation. Wherever possible two Government servants may hire a Rickshaw or four Government servants may hire a Tonga and claim the proportionate day They Tonga charge.
