## 265. Travel by Road

- (a) In case of road journeys outside India, actual fares will be admissible. paid

- (b) An individual may travel by road:
- (1) When travel by road forms a part of the approved route; or
- (2) When he has been authorised in the public interest to travel by road by the authority competent to sanction the travel itself.
- (c) If, on any portion of journey which an individual has to perform by road in accordance with (1) of the preceding clause; there is a regularly established road service or taxi service in which charges are levied on each passenger; the individual or members of his family shall be entitled to one seat each in such established road or taxi service in the same way as if they are travelling by rail.
- (d) If there is no regularly established road or taxi service of the type mentioned in clause (c) or where the individual has to perform any duties at intermediate stations during the journey by road, the individual may travel by an official or private motor car or by such other mode of conveyance as may be authorised by the Controlling Officer or by the authority competent to sanction the journey.
- (e) An officer who performs a which road mileage is otherwise admissible; by an official car maintained at the expense of the Government; shall not draw mileage allowance. However, if an officer is unable to use the official car due to its not being in working order and uses his private car on official duty outside the HQ, he shall be entitled to claim three fourths of the prescribed rates of Road Mileage Allowance or the full rates reduced by the amount of DA that may become admissible to the official chauffeur when taken on tour; whichever is greater. Such an officer may also use his private carwhen the official chauffeur of his official car and any other official chauffeur in the employ of the MissionIPost is not available in which case he shall be entitled to draw threefourths of the rate of Mileage Allowance prescribed as per his Grade Pay.
- If one or more members of the individual's family travel with him in his car, no additional road mileage is admissible on their behalf.
- (g) Road Mileage Allowance to officers drawing Grade of ? 5400/- and above at prescribed rates and officers drawing Grade percent of these rates for journeys on duty performed by road in private car in various countries abroad will be regulated as under: Pay Pay
- (i) Road mileage is not admissible for journeys within a radius of 16 Kilometres from his HQ andlor for journeys performed in a staff car.
- (ii) When an officer performs a journey by road beyond a radius of 16 Kilometres from his HQ, the Mileage Allowance will be calculated at the prescribed rates on the number of Kilometres actually covered during the journey from the HQ to the placelplaces of duty and back.
- (iii)   If two or more officers are to travel by road to the same destination at approximately the same time and the travel is otherwise than by an established road or taxi service, the Officers shall normally travel together in the same motor vehicle; and only one officer shall draw the prescribed Road Mileage Allowance and additional amount per mile prescribed for each extra officer carried in that vehicle whose fare would otherwise have been separately payable by the Government The later officer Or officers shall only draw the DA admissible under the provisions of these rules:
- Provided that Government; or the Head of MissionlPost may; if it is considered that it is in the public interest; authorise the officers to proceed separately by separate motor vehicles.
- (iv) The mileage allowance should be claimed in Rupees (except in the case of the USA and Canada where it has been fixed in terms of USA and Canadian dollars respectively) and to the Officer in local currency at the current official rate of exchange. No exchange compensation will be admissible on mileage allowance. paid
- (v) When official journey performed by an officer in his private car involves visits to different countries; the road mileage

should be calculated according to the rates prescribed for and distance covered in each country separately and not only according to the rates prescribed for the country in which the permanent HQ of the officer is located.

NOTE 1: Rates of Road Mileage Allowance admissible in various countries will be as per rates prescribed in Government orders issued from time to time.

NOTE 2: The year for the purpose of calculation of the total mileage during the period is the calendar year; i.e Ist January to 31st December.

NOTE 3: The term 'trips on duty' wherever used covers the away from HQ:

following journeys while on tour

- (i) All journeys from the official HQ at the outstation to places of duty and back it will not thus cover journeys from the hotel or residence at the outstation to the official HQ and back. In other words, it will not cover the journeys from the hotel or residence at the outstation to the office of the Mission or Chancery irrespective of the distance involved since in such cases the office of the MissionlChancery will be treated as the temporary HQ. If, however; the place of residence constitutes the temporary HQ in the absence of an official HQ at the outstation; the journeys from his residence to the place visited on official duty will be regarded as trips on duty:
- (ii)   Journey fromlto Railway StationlDeckslAir Company's City Booking Office (Airport when transport upto City Booking Office is not provided) standlstation of any other public transport tolfrom hotel residence on arrivalldeparture atlfrom place of tourl transfer will also be treated as trips on duty.
- NOTE 4: The wife of an officer when authorised by Government to travel with her husband and who may otherwise be in receipt of DA will not be entitled to any mileage allowance.
- NOTE 5:If for a journey on official duty; a staff car is used, the officer concerned will not be entitled to claim any conveyance charge and when a staff car is used for private purpose; the officer will be required to pay for the use of the staff car according to the

rates prescribed in the car code.

- NOTE 6: Local trips on official duty should always be performed in staff car. The HOMIFirst Secretary; and in Missions where there is no First Secretary, Second or Third Secretary who may be in charge of Chancery will, at his discretion, allow the of a taxi or any other suitable form of conveyance for strictly official purpose in the following circumstances hiring
- 1) When there is no staff car in the Mission:
- (2) When the staff car(s) are being repaired or islare not available being away on other official duty
- (3) When the staff car is placed at the disposal of the HOM, and
- (4) When the journey cannot be postponed and cannot; in the public interest, be performed in public transport:

The HOMIFirst Secretary; and in Missions where there is no First Secretary; Second or Third Secretary who agrees to the hiring of a taxi should certify in each case that one of the conditions (1) to (4) above is satisfied. The purpose of the journey; the mileage covered and the time for which taxi was hired, will be specified in each case. The charges are to be debited to contingencies .

- (h) When a personal car of an officer is used for official journeys, the officer will be entitled to mileage allowance at prescribed rate, provided the journey is performed beyond a radius of 16 Kilometres, from the HQ\_ The Mileage Allowance will be calculated on the number of kilometres actually covered during the journey from HQ to the placelplaces of duty and back. Accordingly; when an officer performs journey by road on official duty by private car and claims Mileage Allowance, a certificate to the effect that the journey has been undertaken by private car in the interest of public service, should be attached to the TA claim. In the case of an officer on an official journey on tour in his private car between places connected by rail, rail being the ordinary mode of travel, the road mileage will be limited to rail fare between the two places. The HOM may relax the limit if the road journey is performed in the public interest.  Thus an

officer travelling on duty in his own car can get Road Mileage Allowance at the prescribed rate if the HOM certifies that the journey by private car is in the public interest and also records in writing the nature of the public interest served by the officer's travelling by private car instead of in a public transport.

An illustrative and not exhaustive list of the cases where a journey on duty undertaken in an officer's private car be considered in the interest of public service is given below: The discretion vested with the HOM can be exercised by him in all cases in which he considers , after taking into account circumstances and merits of each case, that the journey by an officer in his private car is in the interest of public service. In such cases, he shall, however; have to satisfy audit, if audit considers that the concession has been abused;

- (1) A journey undertaken for reasons of secrecy or security:
- (2) A journey undertaken by an officer in custody of confidential and secret documents.
- (3) A journey undertaken at short notice when it was not possible for an officer to be at a specified place at a specified time if he travels by the approved means and route of travel.
4. The Mileage Allowance granted to an individual is deemed to cover the cost of propulsion of the car during journey on duty:
- k) (i) In addition to actual fares, usual incidental charges as reimbursable for journey by rail will also be admissible in respect of journey by road.
6. (ii) In addition to the Road Mileage Allowance; officers will be reimbursed the actual charges for tolllferrylparking and also the actual charges for garaging subject to a laid down ceiling per night which should be supported by either a certificate or vouchers wherever available.
7. In the case of journeys performed by taxi; bus or lorry plying for hire, the actual fare(s) paid will be reimbursed to the officer. Since the cost of a full taxi is considerably higher than that of taking a seat in a bus or hiring

plying for hire, the use of full taxi should be kept to the absolute minimum. Only in cases where it is not possible to perform a specified journey by other means of public transport either because the competent authority considers that the journey should be performed in a taxi in public interest; a full taxi may be engaged. As a general rule, individuals drawing Grade below ? 5,400/- should not be allowed the use of full taxi. lorry Pay

NOTE: Officers normally maintain a car for efficient performance of their duties-official as well as representational. They are accordingly expected to make a reasonable use of their cars for proper discharge of their official duties irrespective of the fact whether it is purchased out of an advance from Government or private sources. This is because of the consideration that certain concessions are extended to them, e.9. transportation charges of car at the time of transfer, compensation for additional car insurance while serving abroad, reimbursement of customs duty when cars are imported to India. In view of these; the claims for mileage allowance or taxi charges may be regulated as follows:

- (1) An officer is expected, subject to the discretion of the HOM, to use his car for all official journeys within a radius of 16 kilometres. If, however; the car is not in working condition or local conditions in the view of the HOMs do not permit the use of the officer's own car, the staff car can be used. If a staff car is also not available, a taxi may be hired in this respect. A taxi may be hired in cases where public transport cannot be used in public interest and actual charges incurred by the officer reimbursed under the powers delegated to the Government of India's representatives abroad subject to the conditions prescribed in this respect.
- (2) For journeys beyond the radius of 16 kilometres the officers are expected to use their cars, as already mentioned above, and they may draw mileage allowance as prescribed.

An officer travelling on duty in his own car can Road Mileage Allowance at get

the prescribed rates; if the HOM certified that the journey by private car is in the public interest and also records in writing the nature of the public interest served by the officer travelling in private car instead of in a public transport keeping in view the provisions of clause (b) above.

- (3) In case where the Representational Officer has been authorised to perform road journey at outstation by his car in the interest of public service with the approval of the HOM and the officer uses his own car for journeys on official duties at an outstation Mileage Allowance at the prescribed rates may be claimed for such official journeys in addition to the mileage allowance for the journey from the HQ to the outstation and back. If, however; the officer does not use his personal car at the outstation of his own volition, he will not be entitled to reimbursement of taxi charges if incurred by him. However; if the car goes out of working order at the outstation; taxi charges actually incurred on trips on duty may be reimbursed subject to the HOM satisfying himself about the reasonableness of his claim. Taxi charges are reimbursable only when an officer's car is not in working condition and that too when it is actually incurred.
- 4) As regards non-representational officers, it is not obligatory for them to maintain a car as the concessions which are given to representational officers in the matter of transportation of car; reimbursement of customs duties etc are not extended to them. may claim taxi charges for journeys within a radius of 16 kilometres at the HQs subject to the conditions laid down in item No. 7 of the Schedule of the Financial Powers of the Government Of India's Representative Abroad In respect of journeys performed by them beyond for journeys to outstation, nonrepresentational staff drawing Grade Mileage Allowance at 75% of the They Pay
3. prescribed rates. When such officers are also authorised to perform journeys by road in the interest of public service with the approval of the HOM, they are eligible to draw Mileage Allowance at the prescribed rates, both in respect of the journeys from the HQ to the tour station and for official journeys at the outstation.
- m) In case prescribed rates of mileage are based on slab system; the TA claim should indicate the total up-to-date mileage covered by an individual during the calendar year on each occasion a claim for a journey is preferred to, enable the audit to ensure that the rates charged are in order.
5. (n) Officers who perform journeys on duty in official andlor private cars be permitted to break their journeys at an intermediate station enroute if the journeys exceed 400 kilometres and claims DA for such halts. may
