## 146. Conveyance for Recruiting Parties

- (i)   Recruiting parties will be entitled to conveyance by rail, road and sea from and to the station from which they are despatched on recruiting duty

- (ii)   Recruiting parties despatched to outstations to engage artificers for ordnance factories are entitled to conveyance by railway and road to and from and from the recruiting station; rail and road warrants being issued for both journeys.
- (iii)   Recruiting parties; except when proceeding from their unitsl establishments , will ordinarily pay their own and the recruits' railway and road fares, rail and road warrants only being issued at the discretion of Recruiting Officer; the amount expended being recovered by the unit establishment on the certificate of the Recruiting Officers.
- (iv)   Regimental recruiters are entitled to conveyance whilst on recruiting duties, including the period spent on journeys from and to the station of their units, except when proceeding from their units; they will ordinarily pay their own and the recruits' travelling expenses, railway and road warrants only used at the discretion of Recruiting Officer: being
- Paid recruiters; on recruiting duty; will be eligible for conveyance by rail, road and sea from the place where obtain their recruits to the nearest recruiting office and return. will ordinarily pay their own and the recruits" travelling expenses, Railway and Road Warrants being issued only at the discretion of Recruiting Officer. will, however; be entitled to Travelling Allowance and DA as for civilians drawing Grade below 2400/-, while travelling on duty. they They They Pay
- (vi) Soldiersl Sailors on leave, when on recruiting duty, will be eligible for conveyance by rail, road and sea from the place where obtain their recruits to the nearest Recruiting or Medical Examination Centre and return to their homes, if necessary. they
- (vii) Reservists;  pensioners and discharged Soldiersl Sailors when employed on recruiting   duty, will be eligible for conveyance by rail, road and sea from the place where they obtain their recruits to the nearest Recruiting or Medical Examination Centre and return to their homes, if necessary.
