## 73. Conveyance to Families of Service Personnel when separated from the Head of the Family

- (a) In case of PBOR who are on the authorised married establishment and residing with his family in Government accommodation allotted to him or in receipt of compensation in lieu of married accommodation at the station where he is serving, when the head of the family is posted to a peace station where family accommodation cannot be provided or where the families cannot be permitted to reside; his family will be entitled to free conveyance to their home or a selected place of residence provided the cost of conveyance will not exceed the cost of conveyance to their home. If family accommodation becomes available at his new duty station; the family will be entitled to similar return conveyance to join the head of the family at that station. Otherwise; on the return of the head of the family to a station where family accommodation can be provided and are

permitted to reside, the family will be entitled to return conveyance to join the head of the family:

- NOTE : The families will be allowed to convey the balance of baggage; when moving apart from the head of the family without the sanction of the Competent Authority subject to the condition that the total quantity of baggage conveyed by the individual with him, the quantity conveyed by the family and the quantity conveyed to depot should not exceed the maximum entitlement.
- (b) When an individual moves on permanent duty, free conveyance to the new duty station to his family will be admissible from homelselected place of residence to which they had originally proceeded at their own expense from the old duty station of the head of the family provided he was borne on the authorised married establishment and was either living in Government accommodationl allotted to him or in receipt of compensation in lieu of married quarters (CILQ) at the old duty station when the family proceeded homelselected place of residence. This concession is admissible only to a family who moved to their homel selected place of residence not more than one year before the move of the head of the family to the new duty station. It should be availed of within the lien period prescribed in Rule 16.
- (c) As an alternative to the concession in clause (a), the family may remain with the Regimental Centre or Depot provided accommodation is available and their quarters are not required for other purposes. Such a family will subsequently be entitled to free conveyance to join the head of the family on his posting to a station at which family accommodation can be provided.
- (d) A family travelling under clauses (a) to (c) above will be entitled to actual bus fare where public transport system exists and violation of road contract system is not involved. Where, however, no public system exists; the entitlement will be as prescribed by the Govt from time to time (present rate ? 1.20/- per kilometre) for every member of the family above three years of age. This concession is only admissible

where road journeys between places not connected by rail are involved.

NOTE The rates of Road Mileage Allowance as laid down in Rule 61 TR as amended from time to time will also be applicable for payment of Road Mileage Allowance admissible in case of contingencies for journeys by road on foot and bicycle between the places not connected by rail.
