## 16. Lien on conveyance

- (i) (a) Service personnel and members of their family entitled to free conveyance to homel SPR in India on discharge or retirement of the Government servant under these regulations may retain a lien on such free conveyance for one year which may be extended by the authority mentioned in Appendix XI of these regulations. In case of civilians; the lien period will also be one This facility will be applicable to service personnel re-employed under Central Government. year.
- (b) A serving or discharged soldierlsailorl airman or non-combatant (enrolled) suffering from tuberculosis and admitted for treatment into a service hospitall sanatorium will retain the lien on terminal conveyance; otherwise admissible from the hospital to his home during the period he is under treatment in a service hospitall sanatorium.
- 'ii) (a) A family entitled to conveyance within Indian limits under these regulations; may precede or follow the head of the family provided that the journey is undertaken within six months of the date on which other head of the family moves. Such a family will be regarded as accompanying him:

Exception: For provisions in respect of service personnel and civilians on retirement. See Rule 204 and 208 (2) respectively.

- NOTE 1: The family of an individual who is transferred from Station 'A' to Station B' and is transferred to station C' is entitled to conveyance from station 'A" to station 'C' by the direct route whom the move between these stations takes place within the time limit of six months from the date of commencement of the journey from station 'A' by the individual himself. The same principle applies if an individual is transferred to more than two station within the limit of six months. In the case of service officer; the lien period of six months admissible for the move of the family and baggage under clause (i) (a) and (f) of this rule, will be counted from the date when the family accommodation becomes available to the officer at station 'C' except in the case of transportation of private conveyance when the lien period of six months will be counted from the date of move of officer from station A' . again
- NOTE 2: The lien period for conveyance of family and baggage of an individual who dies while in service will be one year from the date of demise of the individual and in special cases the same the competent authority in

may be extended by mentioned Appendix XI of these regulations.

- NOTE 3: In case of families of soldiers , NCsEI Sailors and airmen when ordered to vacate married accommodation, the OC of the Unitl CentrelHead of the Formation/ Department, Commanding Officer, IN Shiplestablishment at his discretion grant lien for six months on the free conveyance to their homes or selected place of residence under Rule 74 with effect from the date of vacation of married Government accommodation. may
- (b) For the purpose of this rule, the grade of the head of the family should be determined with reference to the facts on the date of his transfer; while the number of fares admissible should be determined with reference to the facts on the date of the journey in respect of which free conveyance is claimed.
- NOTE: The family conveyance under the above rule is subject to the condition that no TA will be admissible to a member added to the family after the date of transfer of the individual.
- (c) An individual who sends his family in advance will do so at his own risk and if the orders for the move of the head of the family be changed or cancelled subsequently compensation or conveyance in respect of the return journey of the family is not admissible
- d) Claims for conveyance for the family which moves under these rules in advance of the head of the family will not be admitted finally in audit until the head of the family actually moves.
- (e) In the case of individuals serving at stations where families are permitted to reside but cannot accompany or join the head of the family for want of accommodation at these stations.  The time limit of six months will be calculated from the date married accommodation becomes available at those stations. When a soldierl sailorl airman non Combatant (enrolled) is on the married establishment at the new duty station and draws compensation in lieu of quarters (CILQ), the period of lien will however, count from the date he is permitted to make his own arrangements for accommodation or from the date from which married Government accommodation is made available; whichever is earlier.

These provisions are applicable to the conveyance of personal effects also to the station stipulated above. The provision of this sub-clause will also be applicable to move of families under Rule 72.

- (f) The time limit of six months mentioned in sub clause (ii) (a) above and the provisions of the Note thereto are also applicable to the transportation of personal effects and conveyance subject to the condition that the cost of conveyance of personal effects from the first to the last station will be regulated as follows:
- (1) The total weight carried from station B' to Station 'C' and from station 'A' to station C' should not exceed the maximum entitled scale and
- (2) The total cost of transporting the effects from Station 'A' to station B to station 'C' and from Station 'A' to station 'C should not exceed the amount admissible from station 'A' to station B' plus that admissible from station B' to station 'C'.
- (g) An individual under orders for transfer to another station who sends his authorised baggage or a portion thereof in advance of his move does so at his own risk; and is not ordinarily entitled to any compensation . in the event of his move changed or cancelled . A Competent Authority, however; may if satisfied that the individual did not despatch his baggage unduly in advance of his own move as originally ordered , sanction a refund of the actual cost of conveyance at goods train rate of the quantity of  baggage within the authorised scale as covered in relevant provisions of Rule 67 which the change or cancellation of the move has involved. being
- (h) In special cases; a Competent Authority may sanction an extension of the time limit mentioned in sub-clause (ii) (a) and above provided he is satisfied that the circumstances of the case are such as to justify the grant of this concession.
- In case of posting to field areas.
- (a) Competent Authority mentioned in Appendixof Travel Regulations will empowered to extend lien on conveyance of family and baggage beyond 'six months' .
- (b) Lien period will be reckoned from the date of availability of Government accommodation at selected place of residence.
- c) Limits of lien period will be increased from six months to one year on academic grounds. This will however; be applicable in case of posting from one peace station to another peace station also.
