## 271-A. Leave Travel Concession to Service Personnel Posted to Diplomatic MissionslPosts Abroad

- (a) Service personnel posted to Diplomatic Missions and Posts abroad when proceeding on leave to and returning from India at their own expenses, are entitled to LTC within Indian limits for themselves and the members of their families from Ito the port of disembarkation lembarkation in rules.
- (b) This concession will not be admissible in the year in which the concession; under 'emergency passage under Rule 272(d) has been availed of.
272. Home Leave PassagelEmergencyl Leave passage in respect of Service Personnel and Civilians paid from Defence Services Estimates Serving in Missions IPosts abroad
- 1 . Defence services personnel including civilians paid from Defence Services Estimates serving in MissionslPosts abroad will be entitled to one set of Home Leave Fares during their posting to a MissionlPost abroad.  They will also be entitled to Home Leave Fares at the time their transfer from one station to another station abroad.
2. The utilisation of the sets of Home Leave Fares will be in the following manner:
- (a) An individual and all the entitled members of his family may travel to India and back during his posting to the station abroad.
- (b) Home Leave Fares can be availed by an individual and entitled members of his family after an individual has completed one full year at his post abroad. The limit of one year period may be relaxed by three months on account of administrative exigencies which is to be recorded by the recommending authority in writing before forwarding to the respective Services HQ for approval.
- (c) The travel of the individual will be subject to grant of leave but the members of his family who have resided with the individual at a post abroad for at least six months
- can travel any time separately or together with the individual provided return journey of member is completed within six months of the outward journey: The period of six months of the stay may be relaxed by the Ministry of Defence with the concurrence of the Ministry of Defence (Finance)
- (d) If an entitled member of family of the individual is residing at a place other than the station of posting abroad of the individual, he shall be entitled to Home Leave Fares from such place to India and back limited to the fares which would have been admissible had he travelled from the station of posting of the officer to India and back.
- (e) Dependent sons Idaughters getting employed or getting married after travel to India or remaining there for prosecution of studies after; having performed the journey to India; will be entitled to one way home leaves fares for the journey from station abroad to India provided he or she has resided with the individual at a post abroad for at least six months. The period of six months may be relaxed by the Ministry of Defence after obtaining concurrence of the Ministry of Defence (Finance) . stay
- Newly married husbandsl wives going from India to station abroad or dependent sons Idaughters staying in India will be entitled to one way Home leave fares from India to the station abroad.
- (g) An Indian domestic servant whose passage from India to MissionlPost abroad has been borne by the Government will be entitled to come on Home Leave to India only when the individualwith whom he is employed is transferred to another post abroad.
- 'h) An individual is entitled to Home Leave Fares at the time of his transfer from one station to another station abroad provide the last Home Leave Fares was availed of at least twelve months earlier. The condition of twelve months stay after

- availing of the last Home Leave Fare may be relaxed by the Ministry of Defence after  obtaining  the  concurrence  of  the Ministry of Defence (Finance).
- (j) Leave fares not availed at the time of transfer from one station to another station abroad will lapse. However, in case an individual is instructed by the competent authority to proceed from his station of posting abroad to next station abroad direct  without  availing  of  Home  Leave Fares, he will be entitled to utilise Home Leave Fares after he has assumed charge of his new post abroad on certification by the AttachØ/Adviser  that  functional requirements  prevented  the  grant  of Home Leave Fares in the normal course to the officer at the time of transfer from his last station abroad.
- (k) If an individual wishes to take ex-India leave during Home Leave Fares, he will be allowed ex-India leave not  exceeding one-third (1/3rd) of total number of days sanctioned  as  Home  Leave.    If  an individual travels on an unapproved route during Home Leave Fares, the cost of passages  will  be  restricted  to  the approved route and the excess fare, if any will be borne by the individual concerned.
- (l) Home Leave Fares for India  based domestic assistants of Service Personnel &amp; Civilian paid from Defence Services  Estimates  in  Mission/Post abroad:
- It has now been decided that the Indianbased domestic assistants of entitled officers  posted  in  Indian  Mission/Post abroad would be allowed to avail midterm Home Leave Fares, subject,  to  the condition that the Government's liability shall be restricted to 75% of excursion class air fare. The utilization of this facility shall be subject to other provisions of Rule as above.
3. An individual or a member of family travelling on Home Leave Fares will be entitled to passages by approved route and entitled class from the station of posting abroad to the airport in India. Further journey to the

Home Town or visit to SPR, as the case may be, will be admissible under LTC as admissible vide these Regulations.

- NOTE: Individuals who wish to avail of LTC within India will commence their journeys on LTC from first airport of disembarkation in India en route

or New Delhi, whichever is shorter.

4. If an individual or a member of family travels by a route other than the approved route, the entitlement will be restricted to the cost of passage by approved route.  Attention is invited  to  Rule  246,  Travel  Regulations wherein air travel by  Air India has been made compulsory. If an individual intends to travel by an unapproved route during Home Leave, the Mission will arrange booking of passage through Air India. The Missions responsibility is restricted to payment of fare by approved route and by Reserve Bank of India draft to Air  India.  Excess  fare  and/or  foreign exchange element, if any, is to be borne by the individual concerned. It is not permissible to convert air ticket from full fare to excursion fare during home leave journeys.
5. An individual or a member of family travelling on  home  fares  will  not  be  entitled  to transportation  of  excess  luggage  at Government cost. However, he/she will be entitled to obligatory charges and incidental charges like  porterage  or  free  luggage, conveyance etc. The individual will also be entitled to travel-time including enforced halt in transit.
6. Home leave fares account will be maintained by the respective Service HQ. If a set of Home Leave Fares or part thereof remains unutilised during an individual posting to a station abroad, it will lapse.
7. (i) In addition to the normal Home leave Fares, Defence Service Officers/JCOs and OR and equivalent rank of Navy and Air Force and civilians  paid  from  Defence  Services Estimates  will  be  entitled  one  single emergency fare during their career if he or she or a member wishes to travel urgently to India for reasons of personal or family emergency. In case of an emergency, there is  no  objection  to  a  HOM  allowing  an

individual to proceed on Emergency Passage in anticipation of Ministry's sanction subject to fulfilment of other conditions and after obtaining the following undertaking from the individual concerned:

- '|declare that am availing this single Emergency passage at my credit. also undertake to refund the entire cost of passage now asked for in case it is subsequently revealed that this declaration given by me is not correct: '

The term 'Family emergency' includes serious illness of near relatives. The production of Medical Certificate regarding serious illness of such relatives is not necessary for issuance and of formal sanction in respect of Emergency Passage.

- ii) An officer or a member of his /her family travelling on Home leave Fares or on Emergency Passage will be entitled to passages by entitled class from the station of posting abroad up to the International airport' in India, nearest to his Iher hometown or up to Delhi. International airport in India will also now include the airports which receive International flights and have custom clearance facilities.viz: Amritsar;  Varanasi; Ahmadabad, Patna, Kozikode; Hyderabad and Tiruchhirapalli. These airports are in addition to Airport at Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata and Thiruvananthapuram. The facility to travel by air up to airport at  Amritsar, Varanasi; Ahmadabad, Patna; Kozikode, Hyderabad and Tiruchhirapalli shall be admissible for International and not for domestic flights.

Further journey from the above airports shall be regulated as under:

- (a) Service Personnel: The home town and back or any other place in India without any distance limit each way shall be admissible as per Rules 177 and 184.
