## 260. Transportation of Personal Car-Service Officers

- 1 . The cost of transportation of one personal car shall be admissible to a Commissioned Officer on transfer or terminal journey.
- 2 Ata station where a personal car is required by an officer for the effective discharge of his duties , the reimbursement of transportation cost would be permitted:
- For a car which the officer possessed at the time of his posting to the next station.
- (ii) In case an officer did not possess a car at the previous station then for a car he purchases for use at the next station of posting. In this case, reimbursement of transportation costs would be from the place of purchase or place of manufacture of the car to the station of posting limited to the cost of transportation for a similar car from the previous station of posting to the next station of posting.
- (iii) Where an officer is transferred from HQ to neighbouring Missions viz. Afghanistan, Bangladesh; Bhutan, Myanmar, Iran, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka the actual cost of transportation from the place of purchase or manufacture of the car to the station of posting shall be reimbursed to the officer.
3. (i) Re-imbursement of transportation costs would be allowed in case of clause (i) above if the car is transported to the new station of posting; within six months of an officer's taking over charge at that station; and, in case of clause (ii) above; if the car is for in part of full within six months of taking over charge at the next station of posting abroad. In exceptional circumstances, the above time limit of six months can be relaxed upto one year by the Ministry of Defence in consultation with Finance Division. paid
- (ii)   Officers should produce bill of ladingl manufacture's invoice as proof of expenditure actually incurred on
- transportation of a car. In case of purchase through a local dealer; the officer should produce Dealer's Invoice specifying the amount charged towards transportation of the car from the place of manufacture. The claim of the officer shall be restricted to estimate of transportation charges obtained through the Indian Mission in the country of manufacture.
- (iii) The officer should furnish Essentiality Certificate' from the Head of Office for the grant of Motor Car Advance for the purchase of car, and for the reimbursement of transportation charges of a car.
- (iv)   Transportation costs will be admissible only in respect of a car which does not exceed six meters in length.
4. If an Officer is ab initio posted to a station abroad for less than full term he shall not be entitled to the cost of transportation of car purchased at such a station.
5. (i) If an officer eligible for reimbursement of the cost of transportation of his personal car between any two places; otherwise than under para 4, possessed car which by reason of its age; condition; type of road conditions at the station abroad to which he has been transferred is in the opinion of the Government unsuitable for use there, the Government (i.e. the Ministry) may authorise him, subject to current local regulation to sell it at the last station of his posting and to purchase and transport another car to his next station of posting abroad . The officer shall thereupon be entitled to be reimbursed the actual cost of transporting a newly acquired car from the place where it is purchased or where it is manufactured to the station of his next posting within the limit of the amount which he would have been entitled to had he transported his previous car from his previous station of posting to his new station of posting \_ Provided that reimbursement under this para shall not be admissible unless the aforementioned car is for in part of full within six months of taking over charge at the next station of posting abroad. In exceptional circumstances, the above time limit may be relaxed upto one year in consultation with Ministry of Defence (Finance). paid

- ii) Prior sanction of the Government (powers delegated to DGOL &amp; SM) for the sale of his old car by an officer shall be necessary for the purpose of claiming transportation charges of his newly acquired car under the provision of this para without prejudice to the power vested with the Ministry (powers delegated to DGOL &amp; SM) andlor the Government of India's representative abroad for authorising scale of conveyance by the officer either under the provisions of the General Financial Rules or of under the provisions of Conduct Rules. The provisions of this para shall equally apply to officers transferred to Missions abroad from India.
- 'iii) The cost of transportation incurred on the acquisition of 'Reconditioned' and 'Second hand' personal car shall be admissible. However; in such cases the reimbursement shall be limited to the cost of transportation of the car from the place of its purchase to the station of posting i.e. the actual cost of transportation of the reconditionedlsecond hand car incurred by the officer. No reimbursement shall be admissible for purchase of such cars from local dealers.
- 6 Reimbursement of transportation charges will be limited to the amount admissible had the car been sent unboxed at the cheapest rate available by sea on approved route or and the additional expenditure thereon for insurance, etc. will also be borne by the officer. However, where the Shipping Companies do not accept the cars in an unboxed condition the cars may be transported in containers subject to a certificate being obtained from the Shipping Company that they do not accept the cars in an unboxed condition.
- 7 Ifa personal car is transported by rail by the approved route; the officer shall be entitled to the reimbursement of the actual cost of transportation or freight at the cheapest rate available for transport of an unboxed car by passenger train whichever is less.
- 8 If an officer boxes his car and transports it by goods train; he shall be entitled to the actual freight by the goods train for the boxed car and also to the cost of
- transportation of the boxed car from his residence to the Railway Station at the station of departure, between unloading and loading points at an intermediate station of transhipment and from the station of unloading to his residence at the station of destination within always the limit of the cost which would have been incurred had the car been transported unboxed by passenger train:
- 9 The transportation of car by road will be subject to the provisions as under:
