## Fraudulent Claim of LTC:

- (a) If a decision is taken by the Disciplinary Authority to initiate disciplinary proceedings against a Government servant on the charge of preferring a fraudulent claim of LTC, such Government servant shall not be allowed the LTC till the finalisation of such disciplinary proceedings.
- b) If the disciplinary proceedings result in imposition of any of the minor or major penalties the Government servant shall not be allowed the next two sets of the LTC in addition to the set already withheld during the pendency of the disciplinary proceedings. For reasons to be recorded in writing the Controlling Authority can also disallow more than two sets of LTC.
- (c) If the Government servant is fully exonerated of the charge of fraudulent claim of LTC, he shall be allowed to avail of the concession with-held earlier as additional set(s) in future block years but before the normal date of his superannuation:
35. Explanation: For the purpose of this rule; LTC to home town and LTC to any place in India as specified in clauses(a) and (b) of rule 6 shall constitute two sets of the LTC.
- 36 . Interpretation: If there is any doubt regarding any of the provision in these rules, the matter shall be referred to the Government of India in the Department of Personnel &amp; Training who shall decide the same
- 37 . Power of Relax: Save as otherwise provided in these rules; where Ministry of Defence is satisfied that the operation of any of these rules causes undue hardship in any particular case, that Ministry by order; for reasons to be recorded in writing, dispense with or relax the requirements of that rule to such extent and subject to such exceptions and conditions as it may consider necessary for dealing with the case in a just and equitable manner. Provided that no such order shall be made except with the concurrence of the Department of Personnel and Training.
38. Encashment of Annual Leave alongwith LTC: Government Servants are allowed to encash 10 days annual leave at the time of availing of LTC to the extent of sixty days, during the entire career. The leave encashed at the time of LTC will not be deducted from the maximum amount of annual leave encashable at the time of retirement. It is further clarified that where both husband and wife are in Government Service, the present entitlement for availing LTC shall remain unchanged, and encashment of leave equal to ten days at the time of availing of LTC will continue to be available to both; subject to maximum of 60 days each during the entire career.
