## 198.  Travelling Allowance to Scheduled Castesl Tribes IDisabled Ex-Service Personnel when called up for Interview Mritten test for group 'C' post

- (i)   Scheduled Castes /Tribes candidates and disabled ex-Service men when called for interview Iwritten tests for appointment to

group C advertised posts; recruitment to which is made departmentally i.e otherwise than through the UPSC. either direct or through employment exchange the recruiting authority may allow such; candidates' 2nd class rail fares by the shortest route from the Railway Station nearest to their normal place of residence; or from which normally perform the journey whichever is nearer to the place of interview and back to the same station provides the distance travelled by rail each way exceeds eighty kilometers. No extra charges; if any incurred for reserving seat sleeping berth in the train will however; be reimbursed to the candidates. they

- ii) As regards roads journeys between stations not connected by rail, the recruiting authority may allow such candidates actual bus fares or road mileage as laid down in Rule 61 for Government servants of the corresponding grade whichever is less.
- (iii) As regards TA for sea journey performed by such individuals from union territories A &amp; N Islands and Lakshadweep Islands to attend interview tests for recruitment to Group C posts on the main land as well as in the Island, the sea passage by the lowest class (exclusive of diet charges) may be reimbursed provided distance covered by sea is more than 30 Kms each way.
- NOTE: The TAto the candidates called up for written test will however be admissible subject to the condition that the written test and any interview that may also be necessary would be held at one and the same station and on the same or adjacent days so that the candidate would get TA for only one journey to and from the place of selection; the term candidate does not include those who are already in CentrallState Government service. Accordingly; the concessions in question are not admissible to those candidates. day
