## 63. Warning Orders- Conveyance of Families

A Warning Order issued by the General Staff Branchl Naval HQI Air HQI IAF Command HQ to a unitlship will constitute a posting order for the purpose of regulating free conveyance for the family of an officer proceeding to a non-static unitformationl establishment whose personnel are in receipt of field service concessions. A family proceeding to their homelselected place of residence etc. on receipt of the Warning Order which is followed by a Mov Dte Order ISignallPosting Order Operation Order and the head of the family actually moves out to the new duty station will be entitled to free conveyance to and from their homelselected place of residence etc. in the event of the Warning Order being cancelled later. In case the family moves to their homelselected place of residence etc. on receipt of the Warning Order but the Warning Order is not followed by a Mov Dte OrderISignallPosting Orderl Operation Order and the head of the family does not move out; the move of the family to and from their homel selected place of residence etc. will be regulated under Govt sanction.

Similarly; a Warning Order issued by the General Staff BranchlAir HQIIAF Command HQ to a unit or a Warning Order issued by Naval HQ notifying the change of base port of shiplmovements of agarrison will constitute a posting order for the purpose of free conveyance for the family of a soldierlairmenlsailorl NC(E) In cases where the family moves to their homelselected place of residence etc. , on receipt of the Warning Order but the Warning Order is not followed by a Mov Dte Orderlan Operation Order and the head of the family does not move out, the issue of warrant or claim for the move of the family to and from their homelselected place of residence etc. will be regulated under Govt sanction.
