## 7 . Type of Leave Travel Concession:

- (a) To Home Town: The LTC to home town shall be admissible irrespective of the distance between the headquarters of the Government servant and his home town once in a block of two years, such as 2010-2011, 2012-2013 and so on.
- (b) To any place in India: Leave Travel Concession to any place in India shall be admissible irrespective of the distance of the place of visit from the headquarters of the Government servant; once in a block of four calendar years, such as 2006-2009, 2010-2013, and so on
- Provided that in the case of Government servant to whom home town is admissible the LTC to any place in India availed of by him shall be in lieu of and adjusted against; the LTC to home town available to him at the time of commencement of the journey.
- (c) For self only to visit home town every year: A Government servant whose family lives away from him at his home town may; in lieu of all concession due to him under this scheme; including the LTC to visit any place in India once in a block of four years which would otherwise be admissible to him and members of his family choose to avail of LTC for self only to visit the home town every year.
- (d) Concession for one way journey: Leave travel concession is admissible to the members of a Government servant's family with reference to the facts existing at the time of forward and return journeys independently. The following types of cases are given by way of illustration:
- Entitled to reimbursement in respect of the outward journey only: A dependent sonldaughter getting   employment or getting married after going to home town or

remaining there for prosecution of studies.

- IL. Entitled to reimbursement in respect of the return journey only:
2. (i) A newly married wife coming from home town to headquarters station or a wife who has been living at home town and did not avail herself of the travel concession in respect of the outward journey.
3. (ii) A husband of a female Govt servant who marries at the home town after coming there on L.T.C. for herself.
4. (iii) A dependent sonldaughter returning with parents or coming alone from home town where helshe has been prosecuting studies or living with grandparents etc.
5. (iv) A child who was below threeltwelve years (ticket for child below three years of age is not required and child between three and twelve years of age, half ticket is required) of age while undertaking onwards journey but completed threel twelve years of age only on return journey
6. (v) A Child legally adopted by a Government servant while staying in home town.
7. e Fresh recruits: Fresh recruits to Central Government may be allowed to travel to their home along with their families on three occasions in a block of four years and to any place in India on the fourth occasion. This facility shall be available to the Government officers only for the first two blocks of four years applicable after joining the Government for the first time. The blocks of 4 years shall apply with reference to the initial date of joining the Government even though the employee changes the job within Government subsequently. The existing blocks will remain the same but the entitlements of the new recruit will service.
8. Special concessions for those working in N-E, Region; etc.\_
9. Government servants who are deputed to N-E Region; Lakshadweep; Sikkim and A &amp; N Islands and who leave their family behind at the old duty station or another selected place of residence and who have not availed transfer TA for the family will have the following options:-
10. Avail LTC to home town once in two years; or
11. (ii) Avail LTC for himself once a year from his headquarters to home town or the place where his family resides and in addition the family (limited to spouse and two dependent children) may avail LTC to visit the Government servant at the station of his posting once ayear from the place where they reside.
12. (iii) In addition; they can avail LTCs on two additional occasions in emergencies in their entire career. Under this Emergency Passage Concession" the Government servant andlor his family (spouse and two dependent children) can travel either to home town or the station of posting in an emergency as per his entitlement under normal LTC Rules.
13. 8 Counting of LTC against particular blocks: A Government servant members of his family availing of LTC may travel in different groups at different time during a block of two or four years the case may be. The concession so availed of will be counted against the block of two years or four years within which the outward journey commenced, even if the return journey was performed after the expiry of the block of two years or four years . This will apply to availing of LTC carried forward in terms of para 9 below. and as
14. 9 Carry of LTC: Government servant who is unable to avail of the LTC within a particular block of two years or four years may avail of the same within the first year of the block of the next block of two years or four years. If a Government servant is entitled to LTC to home town he can carry forward the LTC to any place in India for a block of four years only if he has carried forward the LTC to home town in respect of the second block of two years within the block of four years.

10. Places to be visited by Government Servant and members of his family under LTC to any place in India: A Government servant and each member of his family may visit different place of their choice during a block of four years:. It shall not be necessary for members of family of a Government servant to visit the same place as that visited by the Government servant himself at any time earlier during the same block.
