## 266. Conveyance of Official Records

Whenever official records are required to be carried by individuals during their tours on official duty; such records; if cannot be carried with the luggage permissible to be carried free under passenger ticket; should be booked separately with the prior sanction of the competent authority and a receipt obtained therefore. In such cases, the expenditure involved should be debited to contingencies and not claimed through TA bills of the officers concerned. they

- NOTE: It is possible to weigh official records separately and get from the Air Transport Companies concerned two receipts for excess luggage on account of personal effects and on account of official records. As such, when official records are carried by an individual on official tours, the individual himself should furnish a certificate for the weight of the official records carried along with his excess   luggage; if any; while claiming reimbursement for excess expenditure on account of official records. This certificate will provide the required information to the Controlling Officer for scrutinising the charges payable from Government funds on account of carriage of official documents.

- 267 . Transport/Travelling Allowance to Receivel See off Distinguished Visitorsl Delegates Members of the Staff outgoing or Incoming on Transfer
- (a) Expenditure incurred on taxi hire or conveyance hire by public transport and TA to receive and see off distinguished visitorsl delegates arriving inlleaving the country concerned may be treated as charges in the public interest; provided the delegation is a public one or has been sponsored by Government. As far as possible instead of hiring a taxi; the staff car may be made available on such occasions.
- (b) In respect of officers and members of the staff incoming or outgoing transfer; one member of the staff of the mission concerned be deputed to meet them at the Railway StationlAirportSeaport in the vicinity of the HQ of the Mission and normally such journey should be performed by the staff car. In case, the staff car is not available; the mileage allowance or the actual conveyance charges will be granted. Such claims will be supported by a certificate that no other member of the Mission has drawn Mileage Allowance or actual conveyance charges for the same purpose. may
