## 193. Conveyance to Recruits, Combatants and Non-Combatants (enrolled)

- (a) Recruits; combatants and NCs(E), airmen who cannot be recruited locally will be entitled to free conveyance by rail Iroadl sea from the place of joining the recruiting party to the nearest recruiting or medical centre and then to the UnitCorpslDepot centre or training establishment. Conveyance by road will be provided if the distance by road fromlto the nearest rail head exceeds 5Kms.
- Non-combatants (enrolled), when cannot be obtained in a unitstation and are entertained under the orders of GOC Sub ArealBrigade Commander from other stations; will be allowed conveyance by rail from the place of entertainment to Regimental HQ. they
- (b) Recruits who present themselves at the HQ of a unitlestablishment at the request of the Commanding Officer; or produce a certificate signed by a Civil Officer of the District that reported their intention of proceeding to HQ for enrolment will be allowed, if finally approved, a refund of actual travelling expenses. they
- (c) Whenever a Recruiting Medical Officer is in a reasonable doubt with regard to the nature of a disability or disabilities of a recruit and refers the recruit to a specialist for examination and opinion as to his suitability for enrolment in the ArmylAir Force the recruit will be provided conveyance by rail on warrant or by road to the nearest Service Hospital where the specialist is available; and back to the place of recruitment.

- (d) Candidates when called up for Interview and Medical Examination; etc. for recruitment as Airman will be entitled to the following TA:
- Rail fare by second class from place of residence in India to the place of interview and back. If the places are not connected by rail, actual bus fare will be admissible.
- (ii) If a candidate is away from his permanent place of residence when summoned for interview; TA will be admissible for the journey actually performed limited to TA from the permanent place of residence in India to the place at which the interview is held.
- (e) Individuals, except those obviously unfit, mentioned in clause (a) recruited by a recruiting party or recruiter and finally rejected by a Recruiting   Officer or Commanding Officer will be eligible for conveyance to the place at which they joined the recruiting party; or to their homes if they actually proceeded there from to the former place or to any place provided no extra expense to the State is involved. Subsistence Allowance at the daily rate in force at the time the return journey is performed will be granted to the rejected recruits , for the journey by road. No expenses will be admitted to rejected recruits brought in by men on furlough or leave; pensioned or discharged soldiersl sailors unless reservists' , rejections are made on medical grounds.

NOTE: Term recruits' used above includes boys.
