## 74. Conveyance to families of PBOR when ordered to vacate married accommodation

Families of PBOR, who are on the authorised married establishment will be granted free conveyance to their homes or to selected place of residence provided no extra expenditure is caused to the State when they are ordered to vacate married accommodation as a result of rotation of married accommodation on a unit or station basis so as to ensure even distribution of available accommodation among the married personnel of the unit or at the station provided the families have remained with the unit or at that station for at least one year and the necessity for such evacuation of accommodation is certified by the OC Unitlstation (CO, Shipl Establishment) . Free conveyance will also be admissible to families of those individuals who are on the authorised married establishment and not having been provided with govt. accommodation are residing under private arrangement and are in receipt of compensation in lieu of married quarters; provided that OC unit (CO ShiplEstablishment) furnishes a certificate that the individual concerned was not allowed to live outside his unit lines and that his  family actually vacated the private accommodation which they were occupying consequent on the individual being excluded from the married establishment. This concession is also applicable to families on the authorised married establishment in the non-family stations who are permitted to occupy existing married accommodation when they are similarly displaced. Families displaced will also be allowed free conveyance when rejoin the head of the family on his being reallottedlallotted Government married accommodation at the same station or any other married accommodation at the same station or any other station of duty. When it is neither economical nor practicable to provide Govt. transport for the road portion of the journey involved, road allowance on rates and conditions prescribed in Rule 73(d) be admitted. they

Exception: OC unit may reduce the period of one year to six months in exceptional circumstance which should be recorded. In such cases, a certificate will be recorded as under:

'Certified that Govt. built and hired accommodation is not adequate to meet the requirement of the unit for ensuring equal distribution' .

NOTE 1: Families who avail free conveyance to their homes under this rule will not be entitled to such conveyance to rejoin the heads of the families before the expiry of one year of their evacuation. After rejoining, such families will not be entitled to free conveyance to their homes again if are ordered to vacate the married accommodation for the second time unless one year has elapsed from the date they rejoined their heads of families. they

NOTE 2: The families will be allowed to convey the balance of baggage when moving apart from the head of the family without the sanction of the competent authority subject to the condition that the total quantity of baggage conveyed by the individual with him; the quantity conveyed by the family and the quantity conveyed to depot should not exceed the maximum entitlement.

NOTE 3: Transportation of private conveyance (motor cyclelscooterlcycle) to SPRhome town along with the family at Govt cost will be admissible when PBOR allotted married accommodation are asked to vacate the same on administrative grounds subject to the following conditions:

- (a) The facility for transportation of motor cyclelscooterlcycle will be restricted to be used only once in a single tenure of posting at a place.
- (b) The Government servant shall have the option of sending the motor cyclelscooterl cycle either to this SPRIhome town with his family and luggage or at the time of his posting.
