## (e) General conditions for grant of Conveyance Allowance:

- (i)   The competent authority will satisfy itself from the data in the book that the average monthly distance travelled by the individual makes him eligible for Conveyance Allowance. It may then sanction an allowance at the appropriate rate from any date (not earlier than the date from which the log book was maintained) from which in its opinion the grant of the allowance is justified. log
- ii) For any category of individuals the nature of whose duties requires the maintenance of a motor car, the conditions of maintaining books may be waived with prior concurrence of competent authorities. In all such cases the allowance will be admissible at the lowest rates prescribed in column 2 of the table below sub clause (a) above. claim for allowance at higher rates shall be supported by the maintenance of a log book as prescribed above. log Any
- (iii) Once the allowance has been fixed in accordance with these provisions; it will not be necessary for the officer

to maintain the log book for purpose of drawing the allowance from month to month unless the controlling officer so desires. The allowance may be drawn during the currency of a sanction so long as the controlling officer is satisfied that there has been no change in the nature of duties of the individual or the extent of his touring to justify the withdrawal of or reduction in the rate of allowance. A certificate to this effect will be rendered by the controlling officer in the months of each year.

- At present, the allowance is sanctioned to Government servants individually; with the result that every time there is achange in incumbency; a fresh sanction is required to be issued for the successor.  Hereafter; the Conveyance Allowance will be determined for specific posts on the basis of 'controlled travelling' (see V below) by the sanctioning   authority; and the officers appointed to these posts will draw the same unless the mode of conveyance is different; subject to their   satisfying the prescribed conditions; where there are a number of posts in the same category; the post(s) for which the allowance is intended should be clearly identified in the sanction and the rate for each such post should be clearly stated.
- (v) The log books should be scrutinised by the sanctioning authority for determining the average mileage per month justified for official work for the post and the rate of Conveyance Allowance should be fixed on that basis . The sanction for grant of Conveyance Allowance should be issued for period of two years at a time and its continuance will be reviewed at the end of each such period in accordance with the procedures laid down for the initial grant of an allowance.

It will not be necessary to incorporate in an order sanctioning Conveyance

Allowance; any condition of travelling a specified minimum distance in a month for becoming eligible for the allowance in respect of that month.

- (vi) In the case of gazetted officers; on change of incumbency of a post to which Conveyance Allowance is attached, an intimation should be sent by the controlling officer to the audit authoritylpaying authority to the effect that the new incumbent possesses a conveyance (with particulars thereof) or does not possess a conveyance as the case may be to enable the latter (Audit authoritieslpaying authority) to authorise allowance at the appropriate rate to the new incumbent.
- (2) GOsC-in-C Commands, VCOASI DCOASI AGI QMGIMSIE-in-CI DGQA SADirector General NCCIDPR (Defence)/ DGQSI DGOL &amp; SM and other Heads of Branches in IHQ of MoD (Army) and DGOF. The Flag Officers Commanding-in-Chief Naval Commands, the Flag Officers Commanding FleetslAreas , Heads of Branches in IHQ of MoD (Navy) in case of and AOsC-in-C Commands, Heads of Branches in Air HQ in case of Air Force are the competent authorities in respect of individuals under their control of sanction Car Allowance under this rule. Navy

Conveyance Allowance for officers (both service and civilians) will similarly by sanctioned by the above authorities. Conveyance (other than Car Allowance) to individuals other than officers will be sanctioned by the local Head of the Department for Services or CWE as the case may be in consultation with CDA concerned.

- NOTE 1: The provisions of this rule are applicable only to officers and civilians serving in peace areas and also to those personnel serving in operational areas to whom the field service concessions are not applicable.
