## 21. Advance of TADA to the family of a Civilian who dies in service

- (a) The advance may be sanctioned by the authority who would have been competent to countersign the Travelling Allowance claim if the Government servant were alive.
- (b) The amount of the advance may be limited to 3/4th of the probable amount of travelling expenses that may be admissible under the Rule mentioned above.
- (c) The advance will be payable to only one member of the family of the deceased Government servant on behalf of all. It should be the widowl widower or any other member of the family (within the definition of the term "family") who is a major and of sound mind. The decision of the sanctioning authority as to whom the advance may be given shall be final. After the advance is sanctioned by the competent authority; it may be drawn by the head of the office and paid to the member of the family authorised in this behalf:
- (d) Only one advance will be admissible irrespective of the fact that the members of the deceased Government servant's family travel in separate batches from the same or different station:
- (e) An account of the advance drawn should be rendered within one month of the completion of the journey if the family travels in one batch. In case the family travels in more than one batch the account may be rendered within one month after completion of the journey by the last batch. Inany case the journey must be completed before the stipulated period of six months and an account of the advance rendered within one month of the expiry of the stipulated period at the latest. The advance should, however; be refunded forthwith if the journey is not completedlproposed within the stipulated period.
- The surety of a permanent Central Government servant of status comparable to a higher than that of a deceased Government servant should be obtained in the prescribed form as shown in Appendix V before the advance is sanctioned. The person receiving the advance should also give an undertaking in that prescribed form in writing to the effect that helshe would abide by the provisions contained in clause (e) above in order to enable the sanctioning authority to effect recovery of over-payments resulting from non-performance of the journey within the stipulated period or nonsubmission of the adjustment bill within the prescribed period.
- (g) The advance will be interest free and will be treated as an 'advance recoverable"
