## (b) For the Family Member:

- (i) When the family members are staying with the Government servant at the place of his study leave. The reimbursement will be as indicated at (a) above.
- (ii)   When not staying at the place of study leave. The reimbursement will be as under the normal terms and conditions of the LTC scheme.
- Government Employees on Foreign Service with Undertakings: Government employees, on foreign service with Central Government undertakings or statutory bodies are eligible for the LTC provided that provision for its admissibility has been incorporated in the orders placing the employees on foreign service with the undertaking concerned. The cost of the concession in all such cases is to be met by the undertaking concerned regardless of the period of deputation of the Central Government servants. The block period in the case of these persons is the same as applicable to them while in the Government service
25. State Employees on Deputation: State Government employees on deputation with the Central Government are eligible for the concession subject to the following conditions:
- (a) To Home Town: The appropriate Administrative Authority certifies at the time the Government servant concerned avails himself of the LTC that he is likely to continue to serve under the Central Government for a period of two from the date of his joining a post under this Central Government. The admissibility of the concession during the subsequent two years period will also be subject to a similar condition: years

- (b) To any place in India He can utilise the concession if the appropriate administrative authority certifies that the Government servant is likely to serve the Central Government for a period of four years reckoned from the date of his joining the Central Government.
26. Contract Officers:  Officers appointed on contract basis are eligible to the concession on completion one year's continuous service if the period of contract is more than one year. Where the initial contract for one year but is later extended, the total duration the contract is taken into account for this purpose The grant of the concession to the contract officer is object to the conditions laid down in para 25 above.
- Re-employed Officers: Re-employed officers are eligible to the concession on completion of one year's continuous service and, subject to the condition laid down in para 22 above. But in the case of re-employment immediately after retirement, the period of re-employed service may be treated as continuous with the previous service for the purpose of LTC and the concession allowed for the reemployed period (provided the travel concession would have been admissible to the re-employed officer; had he not retired but had continued as a serving officer), e.g, if an officer has availed of the concession to visit any place in India in respect of a block of four years before his retirement and he is re-employed without any break, he cannot avail this concession till the expiry of the particular block of four years .
- 28 . Mode of   preferring Claim: Cash reimbursement of the cost of fare is made on presentation of claims in TA bill forms with the usual certificate that actually performed such journeys and travelled by the class of accommodation not lower than the one for which reimbursement is claimed. they
29. Prescribed Certificate:   To ensure that the various conditions governing the grant of LTC are satisfied before the claims for LTC are passed for payment; the two certificates, one from the Government
- servant concerned and the other from the Controlling Officer as at Annexure-l and II to this rule should be submitted to the audit authorities along with TA Bill for travel concession.
30. Obligatory Evidence: The Government servant should inform the Controlling Officer before journeys are undertaken. They should also produce evidence of their having actually performed the journey; for example; serial numbers of railway tickets etc. Relaxation of minor nature viz in respect of production of serial numbers of railway tickets, prior intimation to the Controlling Officer before the journeys are undertaken by the Government servant andl or their families under the LTC scheme etc\_ can be made by the Controlling Officer; if he is otherwise satisfied in regards to the genuineness of the claim and the bona-fides of the journey having been performed. There is no objection to such relaxation being made by the Controlling Officer themselves purely on merits in really deserving cases and not as general measure.
- 31 . Record Assistance: A record of all assistance granted under those orders shall be suitably maintained, in the case of gazetted officers the record shall be maintained by the CDA concerned. In the case of non-gazetted staff the records should be in the form of entries in the Service Book or other appropriate service record and should indicate the date or dates on which the journey to the home town commenced. The authority responsible for the maintenance of the service record shall ensure that on every occasion a Government servant proceeds on leave, in fact that he availed of LTC is indicated in the records.
32. Forfeiture of Claims: A claim for reimbursement of expenditure incurred on journey under LTC shall be submitted within three months after the completion of the return journey; if no advance had been drawn and within one month of completion of return journey if advance had been drawn. Failure to do so will entail forfeiture of the claim and no relaxation shall be permissible in this regard.

33. Grant of Advance and Adjustment thereof: To enable the Government servant to avail of the travel concession, they are granted advance on the following terms and conditions:
2. (a) The amount of advance in each case is limited to 90% of the estimated amount which Government would have to reimburse in respect of the cost of journey both ways to the home townl place of visit and back.
3. (b) Where the Government servant and members of his family avail themselves of LTC separately i.e. at different times; there would be no objection to the advance being drawn separately to the extent admissible and permitting adjustment of claims separately: Where, however; a consolidated advance is drawn by the Government servant in respect of the members of his family the adjustment claim should be prepared in a single bill.
4. (c) The advance may be drawn for both the onward and return journeys of the government servant and Ior the members of his family at the time of commencement of the outward journey; provided the period of leave taken by the Government servant or the period of anticipated absence of the members of the family does not exceed three months or 90 days. Where an advance has been drawn for both the outward and return journeys and later it becomes clear that the period of absence of either the officer or the officer's family from headquarters is likely to exceed the limit; one half of the advance should be refunded to Government forthwith.
5. (d) The advance in respect of temporary Government servant and their families will be sanctioned subject to the production by them of surety of a permanent Government servant.
6. (e) Officers who are their own Controlling Officers for Travelling Allowance purposes may sanction the advance to themselves. In the case of the others, the sanction of the Controlling Officer concerned would be required.
7. The advance should be refunded in full immediately if the outward journey is not commenced within 30 days of the grant of advance. However; in cases where reservations can be made 95 days before the proposed date of the outward journey and advance is   granted accordingly the Government servant should produce the tickets within 10 days of the drawal of advance irrespective of the date of commencement of the journey
8. (g) The Travelling Allowance claim in adjustment of the advance drawn should be preferred within one month of the completion of the return journey. If that is not done, the authority which sanctions the advance should enforce lump sum recovery of the advance forthwith. No request for recovery of the advance in instalments shall be entertained Once such recovery is made; it would be taken as if no advance had been drawn and the claim allowed to be preferred within a period of three months, failing which it shall stand forfeited in terms of these rules.
9. (h)   The account of advance drawn for leave travel journeys will be rendered after completion of the journey in the same way as far an advance of TA on tour.
10. (j) The adjustment of the advance will be watched as in the case of other advances.
11. (k) In cases where advance of LTC has not been drawn, the LTC claim should be submitted within a period of three months of the date of completion of return journey Accordingly the right of a Government servant for reimbursement of LTC claim shall stand forfeited or deemed to have been relinquished, if the claim is not preferred within the above said period.
12. If the claim is not submitted within prescribed time; the advance if drawn will be recovered along with penal interest at 2% over GPF interest rate from the date of drawal of the advance and it will be recovered in lump sum.
