## 4 Incidental Expenses:

As regards incidental expenses; only the necessary expenses (such as taxi fares, fees for registration of luggage; porterage) incidental to the journey and which are reasonably necessary will be payable on production of certificate by the individual that the expenses were actually incurred. Reimbursement of any other expenditure not connected with the journey at the places of halt will not be admissible.

In addition to the usual incidental charges admissible  telegrams and telephone charged by the Travel Agencies or incurred by Missions in connection with the reservation of accommodation; including sleeper accommodation on Railways, handling and all other Agency service charges and fees shall be reimbursed in respect of journeys by rail abroad when considered by the Controlling Officer as necessary and reasonable.  Telegram and telephone charges incurred by the individuals themselves shall not, however, be reimbursable except on specific sanction in each case to be considered on merits.

The payment of taxi charges, fees for registration of luggage and porterage is admissible as charges incidental to the journey on tour; ie when travelling from the individual's permanent HQs to the places visited on tour and back to HQ. The taxi charges incidental to the journey only cover the journey from the Railway Station or the case may be, to the residence at the place of halt and back. The taxi charges do not refer to those incurred at the place of halt after the initial journey has been completed. Such taxi charges as are actually incurred at the place of halt after the completion of the initial journey or journeys within a radius of eight kilometres and which are considered to be necessary and reasonable by the Controlling Officer are also payable in addition to the DA. Actual conveyance charges fromlto Railway StationlAir Company's City Booking Office (Airport only when free transport is not provided by the Air Company from their city office to Airport), docks tolfrom the place of duty only will be admissible. If the actual charges froml to Railway StationlAir Company's Officel Airport; Docks tolfrom place of residence claimed by the individual are cheaper than fromlto office; the former may be allowed and certificate to the effect should be recorded on the TA bill.

The officers visiting foreign countries on official tours maybe reimbursed actual taxi charges incurred for performance of journeys from air-port to hotel and vice versa in the country of visit subject to their furnishing a certificate to the effect that hel they haslhave not availed of a car facility provided by the Indian Mission for the said journey(s).
