## 218.  Travelling Allowance entitlement of families of Civilian Government Servants who die while in Service

- (a) The members of the family of a civilian, who dies while in service; are entitled to travel expenses by the shortest route from the last permanent duty station of the civilian to his permanent home town the place where the family wished to settle down permanently; provided the journey is completed within one year after the death of Government servant.

- (b) (i) In addition to the entitled fares; the family will also be entitled to transportation of personal effects, CTG, transportation of personal conveyance as admissible on permanent
- (ii) The reimbursement of actual cost of transportation of conveyance to home town or selected place of residence limited to that admissible upto home town; as on transfer; will be allowed to the family of a Government servant; who dies while in service provided the possession of the conveyance by the Government servant while in service at the place of his last posting was considered to be in public interest.
- (c) If a member of the family proceeds from a station other than the last HQ of the deceased civilian to the selected place of residence or proceeds from the last HQ to a station other than the selected place of residence; the travelling expenses claimed will be limited to what would have been admissible had such member travelled from the HQ of the civilian to the selected place of residence.
- (d) Free service will be provided for carrying dead bodies of Defence Civilians and their family members (who are dependent and residing with Govt. servant) working in various unitsl formations under the Armyl and their allied establishments from CivillMilitary HospitallPolice Morgue to place of dutyl residencelburning ghatburial grounds. (near the place of residence) as and when necessary. Navy
- NOTE 1: The provisions of this rule will also apply to industrial personnel. will not, however; be eligible for similar travel concession under any other rule or order. They
