## 103. Hire of conveyance at outstation

- The officers drawing grade pay of z10,000/and above are entitled for Mileage Allowance of AC Taxi if journey is actually undertaken by AC Taxi at the outstations. AC Taxi can be hired by STDICO to provide to the entitled officers of this category while on TD at outstation.
- At stations where suitable Government transport is not available and where it is not possible to hire transport for the Service Chiefs and their party during tour; the offer of the private car of a local dignitary at the station, if any; may be availed of and POL required for this purpose be issued free on 'as required' basis. A certificate from the Secretary Flag lieutenant accompanying the Service Chiefs, as the case may be; will invariably be obtained on the receiptl issue voucher that the POL has been drawn and consumed for the tour of the Service Chiefs.
- (ii) An officer (including a civilian officer) on duty which involves extensive travelling within a short distance at the outstation may, if considered necessary by the Competent Authority; be provide with hired transport suitable to the nature of duties at Government expense, if no Government transport is available; such transport will be provided through the Station Transport Officerl Commanding Officer IN Establishment and the officer will not be authorised to hire direct on his own.
- NOTE: GOC,

Sub Areallndependent Sub Areal Brigade Commander in respect of Personnel (service and civilian) and the Flag Officers Commanding-in-Chief Naval CommandslThe Flag Officers Commanding FleetslAreas, in respect of IN Personnel and Air Officers Commanding-in-Chief, Commandsl Officer Commanding, Air Force Station with the rank of Air Cdr in respect of Air Force Personnel (Service and Civilians) serving under them may exercise the power delegated to the Competent Authority in clause (ii) above. Army

104.  Hiring of Motor cars or use of private cars by Officer in Iieu of reserved accommodation by Railways on journeys where are entitled to reserved Railway accommodation they
2. Officer entitled to reserved accommodation by Railways are authorised to hire motor cars for journeys on duty in lieu of such reserved accommodation provided that the cost of hiring a motor car plus the cost of conveyance of the officer's baggage does not exceed the amount of the Government's liability on account of the reserved railway accommodation which could have been utilised for the journeys.
3. (ii)   Officer who do not hire cars but use their own cars for such journeys will be entitled to Road Mileage at the rates applicable to the particular locality plus the cost of conveyance of baggage subject to the maximum admissible under (i) above. Officers, who s0 travel in their own cars; will also be entitled to draw Road Mileage under ordinary rules for distance actually travelled on inspection duty at out-stations in which they halt in lieu of motor hire.
4. (iii) The baggage within the authorised scale should, when convenient, be sent by railway on warrant. Claims for TA should show the weight of baggage conveyed on the warrant. In adjusting the claims, the cost of the railway warrant will be calculated at the public tariff rates.
5. (iv) When Government mechanical transport is used by the officer for himself or his baggage; he will pay the hire charges for accommodation provided at the prescribed rates and claim the amount as part of the TA admissible under this rule.
6. (v) When a Saloon or Inspection Carriage is hauled unoccupied by the officer (irrespective of the fact whether his baggage is left therein or not) for whom it being run as a result of his proceeding by other means between stations connected by railway over which the saloon or carriage cannot run; the cost of empty haulage will be reduced from the maximum amount up to which car hire or road mileage is admissible

NOTE: A General Officer entitled to utilise railway saloon accommodation may at his discretion; perform one way journey by road or air due to the exigencies of service. Under such circumstances, he is not required to pay the cost of empty hauling charges of the saloon required under these regulations.
