## 17 . Advances of Travelling Allowance and their Adjustments

- (i) (A) An advance of travelling allowance (only if it exceeds ? 50/- in the case of Service Personnel (OfficersIJCOsl Other Ranks) may; on submission of an application to the Principal Controller of Defence AccountsIPAOs concerned, be drawn by an individual before leaving his station. When time does not, however; admit of this course an advance of the amount admissible provided it 50/- may be drawn from Field Imprest in respect of Service Personnel. Service Personnel serving with units and formations having no Field Imprest may draw advance of travelling allowance from permanent advance in an emergency or in exceptional circumstances when time does not permit of money; being obtained from the Principal Controller of Defence AccountsIPAOs concerned. Civilians in emergent and exceptional circumstances may draw the advance required from permanent advance.

Advance paid from Field Imprest will be supported by a simple receipt from the payee completed in duplicate and prominently marked. 'Original' and Duplicate" The original will be receipted over a one rupee revenue stamp; where necessary and forwarded on the date of payment to the Principal Controller of Defence Accounts /PAOs concerned. Full and correct particulars will be furnished on the receipt in regard to:

- (1) The Service Personnel for whom the advance is drawn;
- (2) The particular journey for which it is drawn; and
- (3) The Accounts Officer by whom the advance is to be adjusted.
4. (i) (B) Payment of LTC advance to Service Personnel Payment of LTC advance from Imprest Accountl Postal Collection to Service Personnel Below Officer Rank will be made as per the procedure given below:

- (a) Application for advance will be made by the personnel on requisition form (IAFA194) duly sanctioned by the Controlling Officer to the Imprest holder who will make the payment after general scrutiny. The Imprest holder will obtain a simple receipt (in triplicate including one office copy) as proof of payment.
- (b) Paid requisition along with the duplicate copies of simple receipts and a sheet thereof will be sent by the Imprest holder direct to the concerned PAOs monthly. top
- (i) (B)   (i) Service personnel can draw advance in respect of journey proposed to be performed under the Leave Travel or by the member (s) of his family 95 days before the proposed date of the outward journey: He should , however, produce the necessary proof within ten days of the drawal of advance to the controlling officer to show that he has actually utilised the amount for the purchase of tickets.

Advance should be refunded, if outward journey is not undertaken within the period of advance.

- (i) (C) Government servants, who are frequently required to visit stations on duty away from HQ shall be entitled to draw an advance to cover cost of the Monthly Season Railway Ticket and cost of the photograph to be affixed on the ticket. In case of service personnel who are required to travel on warrant; military warrant only be issued in payment of the cost of Season Railway Ticket.
- (ii)   Advance of value of warrants reimbursable under Rule 47 may be sanctioned at the discretion of Controlling Officers. In case of journeys under rules 177 A&amp;B advance of the cost of warrant will be limited to 80 percent. The Controlling Officers are also authorised to further delegate these powers to selected staff officers under them with the express permission of the competent authority.
- (iii) Advance of travelling allowance for journeys on duty (both temporary and permanent) may be sanctioned by the Head of the Office to civilian Government servants who are not permanent employees as under:
- (a)   Temporary gazetted Government servants without insisting on surety from a permanent Government servant provided.
- In case ofajourney on temporary duty; the advance does not exceed one month's pay of the officer; and
- In case ofajourney on permanentduty; the advance is restricted to cover only conveyance charges on account of the Government servant concerned, his family and baggage to the new duty
- (b)   Temporary non- gazetted and Group C (Multi Tasking Staff only) Government Servants: The Controlling Officer may waive the condition of obtaining surety of a permanent Government servant in individual cases provided they have completed one year of service and the Controlling Officer is satisfied that they are not likely to be discharged within three months of the receipt of advance.

The stipulation as per clause (a) (i) and (ii) above will also apply in these cases.

- NOTE 1: The above provisions do not preclude sanctioning of the advance of travelling allowance to temporary Government servant on the same basis as for a permanent Government servant in the following circumstances:
- (a) When the individual concerned produces a surety from an individual in permanent Government employ
- b) At the discretion of the Controlling Officer; with the production of surety from an individual in permanent employ; when he is satisfied that there is no risk of loss to Government.
- NOTE 2: When a temporary Government servant is served with the discharge notice in one appointment and offered an alternative

appointment at another station and he is entitled to travelling allowance for journey to the new station he may also draw an advance as per sub-clause (a) (ii) above provided he produces a surety from an individual in permanent Government employ:

- (c) In the case of Contract Officers and persons on probation against permanent posts, the advance may be granted without production of surety of a permanent Government servant. However; in the case of officers on contract; the sanctioning authority will make sure, before advance is sanctioned, that the advance can be recoveredl adjusted before the expiry of the contract of the officers concerned.
- An officer deputed on a course of instruction in India and entitled to travelling allowance on the temporary duty scale will be paid an advance of travelling allowance plus daily allowance for the period of the course at the scale laid down in Rule 123, ten days before leaving for the course. Travelling Allowance for the return journey will be ten days before completion of the course. paid
- No advance of daily allowance for the period of the course will; however; be drawn for Army Officers as the daily allowance admissible to such officers undergoing a course of instruction is drawn by the Commandant of the School from the Regional Controller in whose audit area the school is located, on a consolidated Contingent Bill covering all officer students and to them: paid
- All advance including those of families drawn in the manner prescribed above shall be adjusted in the TA bill which shall be submitted to the PCDA immediately on the completion of the journey; complete in all respects, failing which the PCDA shall have the liberty to recover summarily the amount of the advance from the pay bill of the individual for the second month after that in which the journey is completed.
- The amount of the advance drawn should not exceed the amount of travelling allowance admissible under the rules. If in
- any case the advance drawn by an individual is found to be more than the amount of travelling allowance admissible, the unadjusted balance will be recovered from him in lump-sum from his pay billl individual running ledger account under preparation or by depositing the amount in a treasury.
- (vii) The grant of concurrent advance is not ordinarily permissible and should be avoided. Before making payment of an advance; it should be verified that no previous advance is outstanding against the person concerned.
- (viii) IN Service Personnel will draw the advance from the Base Supply Officerl Commanding Officers; Ships and Shore establishments who will notify such payments to the Principal Controller of Defence Accounts (Navy) and obtain his acknowledgement:

Civilians may; in emergent and exceptional circumstances; draw the advance required either under Rule 620 P&amp;A Regulations; IN, or from cash assignment of Base Supply Officerl Commanding Officers of Naval establishments where time does not permit of an advance being applied for and obtained from the Principal Controller of Defence Accounts (Navy) Mumbai; without pre-audit on submission of an application by the individual proceeding on outstation duty. Before sanctioning the advance from cash assignment, a double check will be exercised to see whether the amount of advance applied for is admissible once by the Officer Commanding of the Naval Establishment concerned and again by the holder of the cash assignment.

When proceeding on temporary duty, advances of travelling and daily allowance; to the extent admissible may be paid from Imprests by Base Supply Officerl Commanding Officers of IN establishments to the civilian technical staff of the Naval Armaments Inspection Organisation:

- (ix) (a) An individual serving with I.A.F (Officerl airman or civilian subordinate) requiring an

advance of travelling allowance will submit an application to his unit commander before leaving on an out-station duty. The application should state the nature of duty, details of the journey to be performed and full particulars as to how the amount of advance applied for has been arrived at.  The application will be accompanied by the Payee's receipt (stamped where necessary) in duplicate. The unit commander after satisfying himself that the amount of the advance applied for is within the sum actually due in respect of journey to be performed, will pass on the application to the Accountant Officer or Imprest Holder; as the case may be; who will after checking the admissibility of the advance pay it out of the Public Fund (Imprest) Account. The advance will be noted as demand against the individual concerned in the travelling allowance register by means of which the Accountant Officer or Imprest Holder will watch the recovery and adjustment of the advance.

- (b) In the case of advance made to personnel who are not expected to return to their units (e.g. proceeding on posting), the officer the unit to which the individual has proceeded, of the amount of the advance, the date on which it was paid, and the journey in respect of which the advance was rnade and will request that the amount of advance should be deducted from the travelling allowance claim. Paying Officers will ensure that an acknowledgement of the notification is received. At the new unit; the claim will be finally settled, less the amount of the advance made, and a reference will be given on the claim to the unit where the advance was made, and the date of payment.
